# Types of testing
I am going to explain what software testing is. I'm going to introduce you to the three most used types of testing. You might say that testing a piece of software at a high level means making sure that it behaves as expected in any modern software development project. These expectations are recorded as software requirements. There are many aspects of software testing, but for now let's think of it as the act of confirming that it works as outlined in the software's requirements. 

Now that I have a working definition of testing, let's think about how you might approach it for a UX designer. Testing might mean making sure that the website looks and behaves as expected. For project manager on a software project testing might mean that a specific piece of software works well with other parts of your system for a software engineer. Testing might mean writing code that doesn't break the existing functionality is bug free and satisfies the requirements as set out in a given task based on what your motivations are. There are several ways that you can test your software projects practically. This means that there are different kinds of testing. Now, I'll discuss the following three types of testing into in testing R. E to a integration testing and unit testing.

#### End-to-end testing (E2E)
Let's start with into in testing a real life example of **E two EE testing** would be if a laptop manufacturer, let his employees open some off the assembly line laptops turn them on and use them just like a normal user would do to make sure that the entire in product behaves as it should. More specific to web development into. In testing tries to imitate how a user might interact with your app. This means that in Italy testing you need to open your web application in a browser and then test it by interacting with the page the same way a user might interact with it. For example, clicking on the log in button are going through the process of adding an item to the shopping cart. In other words, you're testing the entire finished software product from the perspective of the end user. Now here's something you may find interesting. The person testing the app doesn't have to be a developer. Finally, E two E tests are the slowest and take the most time to set up and run. Here are a few examples of eat away testing frameworks available on the market. **Web driver Js Protractor** and **Cypress**.

#### Integration testing
Next I'll discuss integration testing. Integration testing is testing how parts of your system interact with other parts of your system. In other words, it's testing how separate parts of your apps work together. Let's explore two examples of integration testing software **react-testing-library** and **enzyme** integration tests are faster and cheaper than **E two E tests** but not as fast or as cheap as **unit testing**. What is unit testing.

#### Unit testing
Let's have a look. Unit testing is the process of testing the smallest units of your source code in isolation. A good example of this is functions. A unit is the smallest piece of code that you can test separately from the rest of the app. Practically the smallest unit of testable code in Js is usually a function or a method. Unit tests are self contained. They're meant to test code in isolation, preferably separate from the rest of your app. This makes unit tests fast to run and easy to write. So That was a brief overview of the three different kinds of tests.

#### Conclusion
Together, they are sometimes represented as a three level testing pyramid. First at the base of the Pyramid are the unit tests which have the highest speed and the lowest cost. Then in the center of the pyramid are the integration tests of average speed and expense. And finally at the top of the pyramid are the E two E tests, the slowest and most expensive tests to run. You are now familiar with the three most common ways that you can test your applications.